# Software-Engineering
Software engineering is the process of developing, testing and deploying computer applications to solve real-world problems by adhering to a set of engineering principles and best practices. The field of software engineering applies a disciplined and organized approach to software development with the stated goal of improving quality, time and budget efficiency, along with the assurance of structured testing and engineer certification.

Though the original use of the term is uncertain, the first software engineering conference was held and sponsored by NATO in 1968. The conference addressed the inconsistency and unreliability in software development as well as the need for better quality assurance (QA) and reliability. The conference gathered international experts who agreed the systematic approach of physical world engineering should be applied to software development, as it already was developed with those goals in mind.

## Resources
### Engenharia de Software Moderna
https://engsoftmoderna.info/

### What Does a Software Engineer Do?
https://www.coursera.org/articles/software-engineer

### O que é um Software Engineer?
https://medium.com/trainingcenter/o-que-%C3%A9-um-software-engineer-8631b2eb69f2

### The ABC of software engineering
https://bertrandmeyer.com/2013/03/25/the-abc-of-software-engineering/

### Developer Survey Results 2018
https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2018#ethics

### Código de Ética SBC
https://www.sbc.org.br/institucional-3/codigo-de-etica

### Code of Ethics IEEE
https://www.computer.org/education/code-of-ethics

### ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct
https://www.acm.org/code-of-ethics

### Manifesto for Agile Software Development
https://agilemanifesto.org/

### Object-oriented software construction (2nd ed.)
https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/261119

### The mythical man-month (anniversary ed.)
https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/207583

### Software Maintenance Management
https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/601062

### Software Engineering Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK)
https://www.computer.org/education/bodies-of-knowledge/software-engineering

### 610.12-1990 - IEEE Standard Glossary of Software Engineering Terminology
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/159342

### Linux Kernel History Report 2020
https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/publications/linux-kernel-history-report-2020

### Why Google stores billions of lines of code in a single repository
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2854146

### No Silver Bullet Essence and Accidents of Software Engineering
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1663532

### the chaos report
https://www.standishgroup.com/sample_research_files/chaos_report_1994.pdf

### The New New Product Development Game
https://hbr.org/1986/01/the-new-new-product-development-game

### Business object design and implementation workshop
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/260094.260274

### The New New Product Development Game
https://hbr.org/1986/01/the-new-new-product-development-game

### Extreme programming explained: embrace change
https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/318762

### Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams 
https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/2505459

### Embracing change with extreme programming
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/796139
