### 01: According to Frederick Brooks, software development faces essential difficulties (for which there is no silver bullet) and accidental difficulties (for which there is a better solution). Give an example of an accidental difficulty you have experienced when developing programs, even small ones. Hint: These could be related to tools you've used, such as compilers, IDEs, databases, operating systems, etc.


### 02: Differentiate functional requirements from non-functional requirements.
Functional requirements explain how the system must work, while non functional requirements explain how the system should perform.

Functional Requirements: These are the requirements that the end user specifically demands as basic facilities that the system should offer. All these functionalities need to be necessarily incorporated into the system as a part of the contract. These are represented or stated in the form of input to be given to the system, the operation performed and the output expected. They are basically the requirements stated by the user which one can see directly in the final product, unlike the non-functional requirements.

Non-functional requirements: These are basically the quality constraints that the system must satisfy according to the project contract. The priority or extent to which these factors are implemented varies from one project to other. They are also called non-behavioral requirements.

### 03: Explain why testing can be considered both a software verification and validation activity. Which type of test is best suited if the objective is verification? Which type of testing is most appropriate if the objective is to validate a software system?


### 04: Why tests fail to prove the absence of bugs?
uint64_t sum (uint64_t x, uint64_t y) { <br>
    if (x == 928349189543712948 && y == 1037485168329895349) <br>
        return x + y - 1; <br>
    else <br>
        return x + y; <br>
} 

Without giving you the source code, how would you write a test that finds the bug in my function? If you found it, how would you know that there isn't a second bug?

### 05: Suppose a program has a single input: a 64-bit integer. In an exhaustive test, we have to test this program with all possible integers (thus, 264). If each test takes 1 nanosecond (10-9 seconds), how long will this exhaustive test take?


### 06: If we consider the historical context, why was it natural for the first software development processes to have sequential characteristics and be based on detailed planning and documentation?


### 07: Some studies show that maintenance and evolution costs can reach 80% or more of the total costs allocated to a software system, throughout its life cycle. Explain why this value is so high.


### 08: Refactoring is a code transformation that preserves behavior. What does the expression preserve behavior mean? In practice, what restriction does it impose on a refactoring operation?


### 09: Give examples of A (Acute, or critical) and B (Business, or commercial) systems that you have already interacted with.


### 10: Give examples of (casual) C systems that you have already developed.


### 11: In 2015, more than 11 million Volkswagen cars were found to emit pollutants within legal standards just when they were being tested in a certification laboratory. Outside the lab, cars emitted more pollutants to improve performance. That is, the code included a decision structure like the following (merely illustrative, for the purposes of this exercise): What would you do if your boss asked you to write an if like the one above? For more information about this episode, see this Wikipedia page.

