### 01 How does XP recommend that software development contracts should be?

### 02 What are the differences between XP and Scrum?

### 03 Scrum Teams are said to be cross-functional and self-organizing. Why? Define these terms.

### 04 In Scrum, what is the difference between the top and bottom stories of the Product Backlog?

### 05 What are story points and what are they for?

### 06 In Scrum, what is the difference between a sprint review and a retrospective?

### 07 Can a sprint be cancelled? If yes, by whom and for what reason? To answer this question, first consult the Scrum Guide (link), which is the guide that documents the official version of Scrum.

### 08 Try to think of a system in an area you have some knowledge of. (a) Then write a story for this system (note that stories are short feature specifications, 2-3 sentences long). (b) Next, break the story you defined into a few tasks (similar to what we did on the Stack Overflow-like system used as an example in the XP section). (c) Are there dependencies between these tasks? Or can they be implemented in any order?

### 09 Suppose two teams, A and B, working on different projects, hired by different companies, with no connections between them. However, both teams adopt 15-day sprints and both have 5 developers. In their projects, team A considers that its velocity is 24 points. Team B assumes a speed of 16 points. Can you say that A is 50% more productive than B? Justify your answer.

### 10 What are the main differences between Scrum and Kanban?

### 11 What are the differences between a Scrum Board and a Kanban Board?

12. What error is there in the following Kanban Board?

13. Assume the following Kanban board. At this moment, the team is unable to work on the specification of new stories, as the WIP of the Specification step is being completely filled by items waiting to be moved to the next step (Implementation). What would be more recommended at this moment: (a) disrespect the WIP and already pull a new Backlog story for Specification; or (b) help the team in the three tasks in Validation, in order to unblock the process flow.

14. Why is it recommended that WIP limits calculated using Little's Law be increased, for example by 50%, in order to allow for a margin of error? In other words, what events can cause these errors in estimating WIPs?

15. Describe the main features offered by Waterfall, Scrum and Kanban to control risks and ensure a sustainable workflow that promotes quality software development.

16. Let it be a Kanban process, divided into four steps. The following table informs the lead time of each one of them and the throughout of step C, which is the slowest step. Based on these values, calculate the WIP for each step (last column in the table).

17. Consider the following graph, which shows — for a given system — how the costs of changes vary according to the stage of development in which they are performed. (a) What development method would you recommend for this system? Justify your answer. (b) Systems in which domains might have a cost-of-change curve similar to this one?

18. Development and Deployment at Facebook (link) presents the software development methods and practices used at Facebook. In their first section (pages 2-3; figure 2), the authors make a distinction between some development methods, based on the frequency with which versions of a system are released for use when adopting each one. Complete the following table with the release frequency mentioned in the article for some software release methods and policies.

19. Why are methods like the Unified Process (UP) and Spiral not considered agile? And what is their difference to the Waterfall Model?
