### 01 [POSCOMP 2010, adapted] Under Requirements Engineering, check True (T) or False (F).
#### ( ) Requirements Engineering, like all other Software Engineering activities, needs to be adapted to the needs of the process, the project, the product and the people doing the work.
#### ( ) In the requirements gathering and analysis stage, members of the technical software development team work with the customer and end users of the system to find out more information about the application domain, what services the system should provide, the required performance of the system, the restrictions of hardware, among other information.
#### ( ) As information from various points of view is collected, the emerging requirements are consistent.
#### ( ) Requirements validation is concerned with showing that they really define the system that the customer wants. It is important because errors occurring in a requirements document can lead to large costs related to rework.

### 02 Name at least five requirements elicitation techniques.
5: Observation

Benefit: You can figure out exactly where users are at the start of your project, and you can use your strengths to document it.

Observation is primarily useful for capturing what’s already in existence and enables several other types of requirements tools, not the least of which is existing use-case scenarios. As one analyst notes, “We’ve found that informal use cases provide the best return on invested effort at the early stages of elicitation – they are easier to iterate, and provide less risk of getting caught up in the details of early thought processes.” [4]

Also, an analyst can document what she observes through numerous types of diagramming and business process models besides use cases. This method not only helps an analyst really get her brain around precisely what the current business needs and processes are, the wide array of available diagramming and modeling techniques ensure that you can use whatever you are most comfortable with.

Before you start observation, you’ll want to set the tone with your users. One writer does caution, “The effectiveness of observation . . . can vary as users have a tendency to adjust the way they perform tasks when knowingly being watched.” [5] Make sure the people you observe know that you are not there to judge what they do, but to make their work easier in the long run. Thank them for letting you hang out with them for a bit, and ask them to show you what they do in a typical task and explain it for you as they go. Ask them what they like and don’t like about it, and about any workarounds they’ve created on their own.

4: Brainstorming

Benefit: You can avoid potential “gotchas” down the road by enlisting others to help you discover your unknowns. Also, more than most other methods, brainstorming enables you to take in a wide amount of information at once, helping you figure out where you want to go from here.

Done properly (without censoring ideas as you go) and with the right audience (representatives of each group, SMEs, stakeholders), brainstorming has the most potential to prevent gotchas down the road, capturing needs you didn’t know about, processes no one mentioned, and things you hadn’t thought of. To an extent, this takes the onus off you for knowing your unknowns by helping everyone think outside the box and helping stakeholders take ownership of the direction of a project. The myriad of ideas and information also give you a rich repository of knowledge to choose from, so you can discern where to go next with your project.


#3: Interviews

Benefit: By exploring someone’s knowledge and needs in-depth, one-on-one, you ensure you understand the real, not just the perceived, need.

Interviews help you dig through your SMEs and users’ knowledge base, so you can understand what they understand and think—which is what you need to write strong requirements. One writer notes, “Interviews provide an efficient way to collect large amounts of data quickly,” but is quick to add, “The results of interviews, such as the usefulness of the information gathered, can vary significantly depending on the skill of the interviewer.” [6] For your interview to be effective, you must be persistent. Remember the five Ws—Who, What, When, Where and Why. When you can’t ask why anymore—you’re going in circles, you’re done with your interview. Also, decide how structured or unstructured you want your interview to be. One analyst advocates unstructured interviews, noting, “The most important thing to remember when interviewing is to ask open ended questions.” [7] You will want to keep your interviews unstructured enough to be sure that you’ve successfully mined your interviewee’s knowledge base, but structured enough to be sure that you cover all of your basic questions and don’t go too far off topic.


#2: Requirements Workshops

Benefit: You can get your basic requirements done in a hurry. Also, everyone you invite can become invested in the project.

In a requirements workshop, you ask everyone to sit down and hammer out the requirements with you. “A requirements workshop is a highly productive focused event attended by carefully selected key stakeholders and subject matter experts for a short, intensive period (typically one or a few days).” [8] To many analysts, this may sound impossible. Stakeholders are notorious for changing their minds and adding to discovery after six months—you’re going to put them in a conference room and nail down the scope over a weekend?


For your workshop to be successful, you will need to

Select the right participants—SMEs, stakeholders, users, and so on. If you leave someone necessary out, the results of the workshop may have to be completely overhauled. Think about this carefully before inviting your group. As BABOK notes, “Requirements workshops that involve too many participants can slow down the workshop process. Conversely, collecting input from too few participants can lead to overlooking requirements.” Another source notes, “Key factors in the success of group work are the makeup of participants and the cohesion within the group. Stakeholders must feel comfortable and confident in speaking openly and honestly, and it is for this reason that group work is less effective in highly political situations.”[9]
Get everyone on the same page regarding the purpose of the workshop ahead of time (defining scope, unearthing business requirements, etc.) Do some base research—use case scenarios, etc., before you start so everyone knows what the current process is.
Conduct the workshop like an interview, with open-ended questions presented to the room.
Document everything. Get a recorder or get someone besides you (or whomever will be busy facilitating) to write everything down.
#1: Prototyping

Benefit: You can make sure that what you’re designing is really what people need while you still have time to change it.

No matter how hard they try, some people just can’t analyze a system or product until they try it. Make it as easy as possible for them to do that. One analyst notes, “Users and business owners should not be expected to be able to visualize the new software. Users usually don’t know what they want until they see something they don’t want.” [10] Obviously, you can’t do this too early in the project—you need some idea of where you’re going before a prototype is feasible. “An advantage of using prototypes is that they encourage stakeholders, and more specifically the users, to play an active role in developing the requirements. . . . the technique is extremely helpful when developing new systems for entirely new applications.” [11] Innovative software is available now to make prototyping more accessible to analysts. If you don’t have a web person at your organization who does it, the software is worth pitching for.

### 03 What are the three parts of a user story? Please respond using the 3C's acronym.

### 04 Assume a social network like Facebook. (1) Write a set of five stories for this network, assuming the role of a typical user; (2) Now think of one more user role and write at least two stories for it.

### 05 In Software Engineering, anti-patterns are not recommended solutions for a certain problem. Write at least five anti-patterns for user stories. In other words, describe story formats that are not recommended or that do not have recommended properties.

### 06 Think of a system and write an epic story for it.

### 07 In the context of requirements, what does the expression gold plating mean?
Gold plating takes time. The practice is very similar to feature creep, which involves enhancements tacked onto a project at the request of the client. In the case of gold plating, though, developers may add polish or features that weren’t asked for, with the intention of adding value and impressing the client.

Gold plating is generally seen as a poor practice. Despite best intentions, the added work is often risky. Gold plating may take longer than anticipated, pushing a project past its due date. The additional changes can even have a negative effect on the existing functionality. However, even if it works out as intended, a client may not need or even like the added efforts.  In addition to its other drawbacks, gold plating can also make it impossible to sell the client additional features after the agreed-upon scope has been met.

Developers sometimes make the mistake of gold plating trying to impress important clients -- particularly if the developers or project managers are less experienced. Although gold plating is often seen as a flaw in project management, it may be carried out by the employees without knowledge of the project manager as a secretive “skunkworks” side-project.

### 08 Write a use case for a Library Control System (similar to the one we used to illustrate story writing in Section 3.3.1).

### 09 The following use case has just the normal flow. Then write some extensions for it.

### 10 For each requirements specification and/or validation technique below, describe a system in which its use would be most recommended: (1) User Stories; (2) Use Cases; (3) MVPs.

### 11 What is the difference between a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) and the product obtained in the first iteration of an agile method such as XP or Scrum?

### 12 The article Failures to be celebrated: an analysis of major pivots of software startups (link) presents a discussion of almost 50 real cases of pivots in software startups. In Section 2.3, the article presents a classification of ten pivot types common in these startups. Read this part of the article, list at least five types of pivots and briefly describe each one.

### 13 When it started, EasyTaxi — the Brazilian taxi ordering app company — built an MVP that used very simple software and an operational part performed manually. Search the Internet for this MVP (just use the words EasyTaxi and MVP) and write a description of it.

### 14 Suppose it's 2008, when Spotify didn't exist yet, and you've decided to create a startup to offer a music streaming service on the Internet. So, as a first step, you've implemented an MVP.
#### A) What would be the main features of this MVP?
#### B) What hardware and operating system would it be developed for?
#### C) Create a quick sketch of your user interface.
#### D) What metrics would you use to measure MVP success/failure?

### 15 Suppose you are responsible for an e-commerce system. Suppose that in the current version of this system (version A) the shopping cart message is Add to Cart. Suppose you intend to do an A/B test by testing the alternative Buy Now message, which will correspond to version B of the test.
#### A) What would be the metric used as the conversion rate in this test?
#### B) Assuming that in the original system the conversion rate is 5% and you want to measure a 1% gain with the message in version B, what sample size should you test in each of the versions? To answer this, use an A/B test sample size calculator, like the one we referenced in Section 3.6.
