### 01 Explain and discuss the three possible uses of the UML:
#### A) As a blueprint (or detailed technical plans)
As a result UmlAsBlueprint is a UmlMode that focuses on completeness. In forward engineering the idea is that blueprints are developed by a designer whose job is to build a detailed design for a programmer to code up. That design should be sufficiently complete that all design decisions are laid out and the programming should follow as a pretty straightforward activity that requires little thought. The designer may be the same person as the programmer, but usually the designer is a more senior developer who designs for a team of programmers.
#### B) As sketches (outlines)
The essence of sketching is selectivity. With forward sketching you rough out some issues in code you are about to write, usually discussing them with a group of people with your team. Your aim is to use the sketches to help communicate ideas and alternatives about what you're about to do. You don't talk about all the code you are going to work on, just important issues that you want to run past your colleagues first, or sections of the design that you want to visualize before you begin programming. Sessions like this can be very short, a ten minute session to discuss a few hours of programming or a day to discuss a two week iteration.
#### C) As a programming language.
If you can detail the UML enough, and provide semantics for everything you need in software, you can make the UML be your programming language. Tools can take the UML diagrams you draw and compile them into executable code.
The promise of this is that UML is a higher level language and thus more productive than current programming languages.
The question, of course, is whether this promise is true. I don't believe that graphical programming will succeed just because it's graphical. Indeed I've seen (and worked with) several graphical programming environments that failed - primarily because it was slower to use than writing code. (Compare coding an algorithm to drawing a flow chart for it). Furthermore even if UML is more productive than programming languages it's hard for programming languages to become accepted. Most people I know don't program for a living in the language they consider to be the most productive. Languages need a lot of things to come together for them to succeed.

### 02 Describe scenarios for using UML class diagrams as a tool for the following types of engineering:
#### A) Reverse engineering
#### B) Forward Engineering.

### 03 Model the scenarios described below using UML Class Diagrams. Note that the classes are written in a different font.
#### A) ContaBancaria has exactly one Customer. A Customer, in turn, may have several Bank Accounts. There is navigability in both directions.
#### B) ContaPoupanca and ContaSalario are subclasses of ContaBancaria.
#### C) In the ContaBancaria code, a local variable of type BancoDados is declared.
#### D) An OrderItem refers to a single Product (not navigable). A Product can have several OrderItems (with navigability).
#### E) The Student class has attributes name, enrollment, course (all private); and methods getCurso() and cancelEnrollment(), both public.

### 04 (ENADE 2014, Tec. e Análise de Sistemas) Construa um diagrama de classes para representar as seguintes classes e associações:
#### A) Uma revista científica possui título, ISSN e periodicidade;
#### B) Essa revista publica diversas edições com os seguintes atributos: número da edição, volume da edição e data da edição. Importante destacar que cada instância da classe edição relaciona-se única e exclusivamente a uma instância da classe revista científica, não podendo relacionar-se com nenhuma outra;
#### C) Um artigo possui título e nome do autor. Um artigo é um conteúdo exclusivo de uma edição. E uma edição obrigatoriamente tem que possuir no mínimo 10 e no máximo 15 artigos.

### 05 Crie diagramas de classes para os seguintes trechos de código:
#### A) public class HelloWorldSwing { 
####    public static void main(String[] args) {
####      JFrame frame = new JFrame("Hello world!");
####      frame.setVisible(true);
####    }
#### }
#### B) class HelloWorldSwing extends JFrame {
####    public HelloWorldSwing() {
####      super("Hello world!");
####    }
####    public static void main(String[] args) {
####      HelloWorldSwing frame = new HelloWorldSwing();
####      frame.setVisible(true);
####    }
#### }

### 06 Mostre o diagrama de sequência relativo ao seguinte código. O diagrama deve começar com a seguinte chamada a.m5().
#### A a = new A(); // variáveis globais
#### B b = new B();
#### C c = new C();
#### class C { 
####    void m1() { ... } 
#### }
#### class B { 
####    void m2() { ... c.m1(); ... this.m3(); ... }
####    void m3() { ... c.m1(); ... }
####    void m4() { ... }
#### }
#### class A { 
####    void m5() { ... b.m2(); ... b.m3(); ... b.m4(); ...  }
#### }     

### 07 Em diagramas de atividades, explique a diferença entre um nodo de merge e um nodo de join.

### 08 Qual é o erro do seguinte diagrama de atividades? Refaça o diagrama de forma a refletir corretamente a intenção do projetista.
