### 01 Describe three benefits of the design property called information hiding?

### 02 Suppose a programmer adopts the following strategy: when implementing any new functionality or correcting a bug that implies modifying two classes A and B located in different files, he completes the task by moving the classes to the same file. Explaining better: after finishing the programming task that was under his responsibility, he chooses one of the classes, let's say class B, and moves it to the same file as class A. Acting this way, he will be improving which design property? On the other hand, which design property is being negatively affected? Justify.

### 03 Classitis is the name given by John Ousterhout to the proliferation of small classes in a system. According to him, classitis can result in classes that are individually simple, but that increase the total complexity of a system. Using the concepts of coupling and cohesion, how can we explain the problem caused by this disease?

### 04 Define: (a) acceptable coupling; (b) poor coupling; (c) structural coupling; (d) evolutionary (or logical) coupling.

### 05 Give an example of: (1) structural and acceptable coupling; (2) structural and poor coupling.

### 06 Is it possible for a class A to be coupled to a class B without having a reference to B in your code? If so, is this coupling acceptable or is it a bad coupling?

### 07 Suppose a program where all the code is implemented in the main method. Does he have a cohesion or coupling problem? Justify.

### 08 Which design principle is violated by the following code?

void onclick() {
  num1 = textfield1.value();
  c1 = BD.getConta(num1)
  num2 = textfield2.value();
  c2 = BD.getConta(num2)
  valor = textfield3.value();
  beginTransaction();
  try {
    c1.retira(valor);
    c2.deposita(valor);
    commit();
  }          
  catch() {
    rollback();
  }
}  

### 09 It is often said that there are three key concepts in object orientation: encapsulation, polymorphism and inheritance. Suppose you have been tasked with designing a new programming language. Suppose further that you can choose only two of the three concepts we mentioned. Which of the concepts would you then eliminate from your new language? Justify your answer.

### 10 Which design principle is violated by the following code? How could you change the method's code to meet this principle?****

void sendMail(ContaBancaria conta, String msg) {
  Cliente cliente = conta.getCliente();
  String endereco = cliente.getMailAddress();
  "Envia mail"
}  

11. Which design principle is violated by the following code? How could you change the method's code to meet this principle?
void imprimeDataContratacao(Funcionario func) {
  Date data = func.getDataContratacao();
  String msg = data.format();
  System.out.println(msg);
}  

### 12 A method's preconditions are Boolean expressions involving its parameters (and possibly the state of its class) that must be true before its execution. Similarly, postconditions are Boolean expressions involving the result of the method. Given these definitions, which design principle is violated by the code below?

class A {  
  int f(int x) { // pre: x > 0
    ...
    return exp;
  }              // pos: exp > 0
  ...
}

class B extends A {  
  int f(int x) { // pre: x > 10
  ...
  return exp;
  }              // pos: exp > -50
  ...
}

### 13 Calculate the CBO and LCOM of the following class:

class A extends B {

  C f1, f2, f3;

  void m1(D p) {
    "usa f1 e f2"
  }
  void m2(E p) {
    "usa f2 e f3"
  }
  void m3(F p) {
    "usa f3"  
  }
}

### 14 Which of the following classes is most cohesive? Justify by computing the LCOM values of each.
class A {

  X x = new X();

  void f() {
    x.m1();
  }
  void g() {
    x.m2();
  }
  void h() {
    x.m3();
  }
}
class B {

  X x = new X();
  Y y = new Y();
  Z z = new Z();

  void f() {
    x.m();
  }

  void g() {
    y.m();
  }

  void h() {
    z.m();
  }

}

### 15 Why does the LCOM metric measure the absence and not the presence of cohesion? Justify.

### 16 Should all methods of a class be considered when calculating LCOM? Yes or no? Justify.

### 17 The definition of cyclomatic complexity is programming language independent. Yes or no? Justify.

### 18 Give a code example with minimal cyclomatic complexity. What is this complexity?

### 19 Cristina Lopes — professor at the University of California, Irvine, USA — is the author of a book on programming styles (link). In the book, she discusses several styles for implementing the same problem, called frequency of terms. Given a text file, list the most frequent n-words in decreasing order of frequency and ignoring stop words, that is, articles, prepositions, etc. The Python source code for all versions reviewed in the book is publicly available on GitHub (and for this exercise, we forked the original repository). Take a look at two of these versions:

- Monolithic, available at this link.

- Object-oriented, available at this link.

First, review and study the code for both versions (each version is less than 100 lines). Then argue about the advantages of the OO solution over the monolithic version. For this, try to extrapolate the size of the system. Assume that it will be implemented by different developers and that each one will be responsible for a part of the project.
