# D2 - REQUIREMENTS ENGINEERING CHALLENGE
Prof. Allysson Allex Araújo

## The challenge is to create a requirements specification for a software system based on the email below.
"Dear Mr./Ms. <br>
We are a small healthcare company and we need to develop a system that will help us manage our patients. <br>
The system must allow our doctors and nurses to record information about patients, including their personal information, medical history, tests performed, treatments and prescriptions. <br>
We also need an intuitive and user-friendly user interface that allows our patients to access the system to book appointments, check their test results, contact information, office hours and other health-related information. <br>
Finally, we would like the system to be able to send email or SMS reminders to patients to remind them of their medical appointments. <br>
Thanks for your help! <br>
Sincerely, <br>
The XYZ Clinic team"

## Attention: The specification must include the following items:
1) A list of all functional system requirements, including a description of how each requirement is to be implemented;
2) A list of all non-functional system requirements, including requirements for performance, security, usability, etc.;
3) A detailed description of the system's user interface, including a description of how each element of the interface should be implemented;
4) A list of 5 additional questions you would ask for clarification about the software;
5) Glossary of technical terms and concepts related to the online library management system.









